.TH DOTFILES-MANAGER 1 "2024" "dotfiles-manager" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dotfiles-manager \- A symlink-based dotfiles management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dotfiles-manager
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdotfiles-manager\fR is a tool for managing dotfiles using symlink-based synchronization.
Files are stored in a repository and symlinked to their destination locations in the home directory.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS init
Initialize dotfiles repository.
.TP
\fB--repo-path\fR \fIPATH\fR
Repository path (default: ~/.dotfiles)
.SS add
Add a file to tracking.
.TP
\fB<tool>\fR
Tool name (e.g., sway, waybar, cursor, firefox, zen)
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
Source file path
.TP
\fB--dest\fR \fIPATH\fR
Destination path in home directory
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (optional)
.SS add-browser
Auto-detect and add browser profiles (Firefox and Zen).
.TP
\fB[browser]\fR
Browser name (firefox, zen, or all) - default: all
.SS sync
Sync tracked files (create symlinks).
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview changes without applying
.SS status
Show sync status of tracked files.
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.SS list
List tracked files.
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.SS remove
Remove a file from tracking.
.TP
\fB<tool>\fR
Tool name
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
File name in repository
.SS restore
Restore files from backup.
.TP
\fB[backup]\fR
Backup index or 'latest' (default: latest)
.TP
\fB--file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Specific file to restore (optional)
.SS validate
Validate configuration integrity.
.SS profile
Profile management subcommands.
.TP
\fBcreate\fR \fINAME\fR
Create a new profile
.TP
\fBswitch\fR \fINAME\fR
Switch to a profile
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all profiles
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in \fI~/.config/dotfiles-manager/config.toml\fR.

The configuration file uses TOML format with the following structure:

.nf
[general]
repo_path = "~/.dotfiles"
current_profile = "default"
backup_dir = "~/.dotfiles/.backups"
symlink_resolution = "auto"

[tools.<tool_name>]
files = [
    { repo = "filename", dest = ".config/path/to/file" },
    { repo = "other", dest = ".config/path/to/other", profile = "work" }
]
.fi

.SH SYMLINK RESOLUTION
.TP
\fBauto\fR
Use relative if possible, absolute if needed (default)
.TP
\fBrelative\fR
Always create relative symlinks
.TP
\fBabsolute\fR
Always create absolute symlinks
.TP
\fBfollow\fR
Follow existing symlinks, replace target
.TP
\fBreplace\fR
Replace symlinks with actual files (copy)
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize repository:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager init
.fi
.RE

Add a file:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager add sway ~/.config/sway/config
.fi
.RE

Sync files:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager sync
.fi
.RE

Check status:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager status
.fi
.RE

Add browser profiles:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager add-browser
.fi
.RE

Create and use a profile:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager profile create work
dotfiles-manager profile switch work
dotfiles-manager sync --profile work
.fi
.RE

Restore from backup:
.RS
.nf
dotfiles-manager restore latest
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/dotfiles-manager/config.toml\fR
Main configuration file
.TP
\fI~/.dotfiles/\fR
Repository directory (default)
.TP
\fI~/.dotfiles/.backups/\fR
Backup directory (default)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Written for dotfiles management.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the project repository.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024

