.TH FLUX 1 "2024" "flux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flux \- A symlink-based dotfiles management tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flux
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBflux\fR is a tool for managing dotfiles using symlink-based synchronization.
Files are stored in a repository and symlinked to their destination locations in the home directory.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS init
Initialize dotfiles repository.
.TP
\fB--repo-path\fR \fIPATH\fR
Repository path (default: ~/.dotfiles)
.SS add
Add a file to tracking.
.TP
\fB<tool>\fR
Tool name (e.g., sway, waybar, cursor, firefox, zen)
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
Source file path
.TP
\fB--dest\fR \fIPATH\fR
Destination path in home directory
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (optional)
.SS add-browser
Auto-detect and add browser profiles (Firefox and Zen).
.TP
\fB[browser]\fR
Browser name (firefox, zen, or all) - default: all
.SS sync
Sync tracked files (create symlinks).
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview changes without applying
.SS status
Show sync status of tracked files.
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.SS list
List tracked files.
.TP
\fB--profile\fR \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: current profile)
.SS remove
Remove a file from tracking.
.TP
\fB<tool>\fR
Tool name
.TP
\fB<file>\fR
File name in repository
.SS restore
Restore files from backup.
.TP
\fB[backup]\fR
Backup index or 'latest' (default: latest)
.TP
\fB--file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Specific file to restore (optional)
.SS validate
Validate configuration integrity.
.SS profile
Profile management subcommands.
.TP
\fBcreate\fR \fINAME\fR
Create a new profile
.TP
\fBswitch\fR \fINAME\fR
Switch to a profile
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all profiles
.SS remote
Manage git remotes.
.TP
\fBadd\fR \fINAME\fR \fIURL\fR [\fB--dry-run\fR]
Add a remote repository
.TP
\fBremove\fR \fINAME\fR [\fB--dry-run\fR]
Remove a remote repository
.TP
\fBset-url\fR \fINAME\fR \fIURL\fR [\fB--dry-run\fR]
Set or change remote URL
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all configured remotes
.SS push
Push changes to a remote repository.
.TP
\fB--remote\fR \fINAME\fR
Remote name (default: origin or config default_remote)
.TP
\fB--branch\fR \fINAME\fR
Branch name (default: current HEAD or config default_branch)
.TP
\fB--set-upstream\fR
Set upstream branch after push
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview push without executing
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in \fI~/.config/flux/config.toml\fR.

The configuration file uses TOML format with the following structure:

.nf
[general]
repo_path = "~/.dotfiles"
current_profile = "default"
backup_dir = "~/.dotfiles/.backups"
symlink_resolution = "auto"
default_remote = "origin"
default_branch = "main"

[tools.<tool_name>]
files = [
    { repo = "filename", dest = ".config/path/to/file" },
    { repo = "other", dest = ".config/path/to/other", profile = "work" }
]
.fi

.SH SYMLINK RESOLUTION
.TP
\fBauto\fR
Use relative if possible, absolute if needed (default)
.TP
\fBrelative\fR
Always create relative symlinks
.TP
\fBabsolute\fR
Always create absolute symlinks
.TP
\fBfollow\fR
Follow existing symlinks, replace target
.TP
\fBreplace\fR
Replace symlinks with actual files (copy)
.SH EXAMPLES
Initialize repository:
.RS
.nf
flux init
.fi
.RE

Add a file:
.RS
.nf
flux add sway ~/.config/sway/config
.fi
.RE

Sync files:
.RS
.nf
flux sync
.fi
.RE

Check status:
.RS
.nf
flux status
.fi
.RE

Add browser profiles:
.RS
.nf
flux add-browser
.fi
.RE

Create and use a profile:
.RS
.nf
flux profile create work
flux profile switch work
flux sync --profile work
.fi
.RE

Restore from backup:
.RS
.nf
flux restore latest
.fi
.RE

Add a remote and push:
.RS
.nf
flux remote add origin git@github.com:username/dotfiles.git
flux push --set-upstream
.fi
.RE

List remotes:
.RS
.nf
flux remote list
.fi
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/flux/config.toml\fR
Main configuration file
.TP
\fI~/.dotfiles/\fR
Repository directory (default)
.TP
\fI~/.dotfiles/.backups/\fR
Backup directory (default)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR symlink (7)
.SH AUTHOR
Written for dotfiles management.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to the project repository.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024

